582303 Network Programming
==========================

Programming Exercise (Feb 24 - March 9, 2020):


For this programming exercise there is only a single task as described
below but it is somewhat more demanding than the usual weekly exercise
set. The task is the same for all students and each student is supposed
to complete this task independently and as soon as possible, but at
latest by Monday, March 9, 2020 (see further information on grading
below). Completing this task is required to pass the course.

Your task is to write a program that communicates with a server program
(service) which has the service name

 UNIX_TL

and which is running on host

 whx-10.cs.helsinki.fi

Write a program which connects to the UNIX_TL server using TCP and
follow the instructions that the UNIX_TL server will send to your
program. You have completed the task, once you get a message

"...  Your program has been ACCEPTED ..."


UNIX_TL server will not give you all instructions at once, so make sure
you ALWAYS read (receive) everything it sends to your program and do not
close any connection (socket) prematurely. In addition, note that not
everything is fully explained in the instructions, but sometimes you
need to deduce or guess what your program is required to do. Careful
inspection of how UNIX_TL does things should help in many cases.

Please make sure your program can be run autonomously, that is, it
should require no human intervention at run time (e.g., no user input).
Any input should be given only as command line arguments. Also, all IP
addresses and port numbers should be resolved by the program code.

UNIX_TL will start its execution on Monday, February 24, 2020, 
at 11 o'clock. There will be an announcement on the course web 
page once the server is running.

Important!!!:

Your program may get accepted only if it runs on one of the CS
Department computers (the Linux machines at the department) and
it has access to the CS department home file system and your
home directory there  /home/fs/<login name>/ 

If you don't have an account on these computers, please contact 
tktl-luvat@cs.helsinki.fi. It is NOT possible to connect to the server
outside of the CS Department network.

If working remotely, use one of the CS Department nodes

 np1.cs.helsinki.fi 
 np2.cs.helsinki.fi 
 np3.cs.helsinki.fi 
 np4.cs.helsinki.fi 
 np5.cs.helsinki.fi 

for remote login (via melkki or melkinpaasi) to run your program.

NOTE: The nodes listed above are guaranteed to have connectivity
      with the server node, but the PC computers in the CS Department
      classrooms should possibly work as well.


When asked, send the pathname for the source code of your program. It
should be relative to your home directory as you will be instructed by
the server. In addition, make sure that the source code for your program is
implemented in a SINGLE source code file ONLY (e.g., my_program.c) and
contains no other include's than the standard headers that you need (no
linking of several modules from separate source code files) and compiles
with

 cc my_program.c  (OR gcc my_program.c)

on CS Department Unix (Linux) computers.

Follow this instruction even though, in general, it might not be the
best practise to implement a program in a single source code file
(module).

Instructor (Markku Kojo) will be available for questions and help on
this task in room C216 according to the following schedule:


Tue Feb 25  at 14:00 - 14:30
Wed Feb 26  at 16:00 - 16:30
Thu Feb 27  at 13:30 - 14:00
Fri Feb 28  at 12:00 - 12:30
Mon Mar  2  at 12:30 - 13:00

To pass the course this task should be completed by March 9, 2020 at
24:00 (EET) o'clock at latest.

The maximum course points you may gain with this exercise depends on the
time and date your program becomes accepted as follows:

7 points deadline Tue, Feb 25, at 24:00 (EET)
6 points deadline Wed, Feb 26, at 24:00 (EET)
5 points deadline Thu, Feb 27, at 24:00 (EET)
4 points deadline Fri, Feb 28, at 24:00 (EET)
3 points deadline Sun, Mar 1, at 24:00 (EET)
2 points deadline Fri, Mar  6, at 24:00 (EET)
1 point  deadline Mon, Mar  9, at 24:00 (EET)

The quality of the program code, including how the source code is
commented and how well it fulfills the requirements set above, will also
be taken into account when grading this exercise. Note, however, that
given the nature of the exercise we do not expect fully polished nor
production quality code.

Good luck!
